# Example of REST API for the teamwork

This repository contains a Node/Express application implementing a very simple REST API for a book store. It is used to illustrate the following key technologies:

 - REST API.
 - Express and its middlewares.
 - Testing with Mocha.
 - JWT (_Json Web Token_).
 - Using Sequelize to access a database.
 - Running tasks in the background.
 
# Repository organization

The repository is organized in several directories and files:

 - `.vscode/launch.json`: contains configurations of the debugger in Visual Studio Code.

 - `/app`: contains the code of the Express application.
 
    - `app/config`: contains the configuration files.
    - `app/routes`: contains the routes (API endpoints) for authorization and book management.
    - `app/middlewares/validators`: contains the code to validate the routes (validators).
    - `app/controllers`: contains the code to control the routes (controllers).
    - `app/models`: contains the book and user data models and the code for database creation.
    - `app/media`: contains the code to deal with media files.
    - `app.js`: main file of the express application.

 - `/test`: contains the code to test the application.
    - `test/assets`: contains assets for the test.
    - `test/routes`: contains the code to test the routes.
    - `index.js`: main file of the test.
   
 - `index.js`: main file of the Node.js application.
 - `.gitignore`: specifies intentionally untracked files that Git should ignore.
 - `Dockerfile`: contains the commands to build docker images.
 - `docker-compose.yml`: configures docker application’s services, networks, volumes and more.
 - `package.json`: metadata file in the node.js project generated by the node.js package manager (npm) that describes dependencies of modules (libraries), scripts, configuration, and other project details.
 - `package-lock.json`: describes the exact tree of models that will be generated in the `node_modules` directory after running the command _npm install_ and is automatically generated when npm modifies the `package.json`.    
 - `README.md`: this file (markdown format).
   

# Usage

You must follow these steps to start the application in a local machine:

 1. Install the dependencies:
  
    - _npm install_

 2. Run the application in the local machine with the desired configuration of the database according to the scripts described in the `package.json` file:
 
    - _npm run dev-start_: to run the server with the development database.
    - _npm run dev-test_: to run the tests with the development database.
    - _npm start_: to run the server with the local database (production mode).
    - _npm test_: to run the tests with the local database.
